At Skamania Lodge

My wife and I slept in a king-sized bed  
with a very lovely Pendleton quilt  
that was previously occupied  
by thousands of people.

We used the same sheets and pillows.  
I made coffee in the bathroom while she dried off  
with a towel shared by who knows  
how many others.

I imagined all sorts of scenarios playing out  
in our back-of-the-lodge suite: lazy nights,  
lonely businessmen calling home, lovers’  
getaways, a family vacation going south.

Each cycling through the private world  
of the others. Starched, pressed, yes, but still:  
we leave behind a little of ourselves, held  
by the memory-foam mattress, the heavy drapes.

Which, I think, is why I stared so long  
at the Gideons Bible in the night stand  
I found on accident, looking for the remote  
to see if the Saints were winning.

This wasn’t a pair of lacy underwear,  
no intimate family photos or favorite terrycloth toy  
forgotten in a rush out the door, nothing  
to speak of who had passed before,

though that was my first reaction,  
intrusion, at the deeper spiritual  
implications lying in wait inside  
this unassuming bedside drawer.

I wondered if anyone ever reads it,  
this little book full of wisdom  
and mystery and, for many, anger  
enough to ruin any vacation;

are there fingerprints or dog-eared pages?  
Bits underlined and memorized? Notes  
in the margins asking questions or arguing?  
Whole pages torn out in grief or sudden comprehension?

Or do we many thousand strangers share  
in common the experience of opening the drawer,  
just to see, expecting a hotel notepad, take-out menus  
and a phone book full of numbers we'll never call

but finding instead this book. I think we look  
knowing all along what it is we'll find. I did.  
Satisfied we close it again, more or less certain  
of ourselves, and go wander down to the gift shop.

(Bonus fun-facts I couldn't work into the poem about the [Gideons](http://www.gideons.org/) via [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gideons_International): More than 1.8 billion Bibles and New Testaments have been distributed since 1908. / On average, more than two copies of the Bible are distributed per second through Gideons International. / It is anticipated that the two billionth Scripture will be placed in 2015.)
